DOCS-2550: Add from one machine to many how-to (#3201)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/use-cases/one-to-many.md

---
title: "How to configure multiple similar machines"
linkTitle: "Configure many machines"
weight: 40
type: "docs"
tags: ["data management", "data", "services"]
images: ["/platform/fleet.svg"]
description: "How to configure multiple similar or identical machines with fragments."
---

Viam has a built-in tool called _{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="fragment" text="fragments" >}}_ for copying parts of a configuration file to multiple machines, as well as for modifying just some sections of a config if your machines are similar but not identical.

When you update a fragment, it updates the configurations of all machines that use that fragment.

{{< alert title="In this page" color="tip" >}}

1. [Create a configuration fragment](#create-a-fragment)
1. [Apply a fragment to multiple machines](#add-a-fragment-to-multiple-machines)
1. [Modify an otherwise identical configuration](#modify-a-fragment)

{{< /alert >}}

For information on provisioning many machines, see [Provisioning](/fleet/provision/).

## Create a fragment

{{< table >}}
{{% tablestep link="/configure/" %}}

> {{<imgproc src="/use-cases/one-to-many/config.png" resize="700x" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 250px" declaredimensions=true alt="Configuration builder UI">}}

Reviewer: This is an interesting approach but the screenshots are too small to be useful. If Cristina can create something that's great, if not I think use the full screenshots and add them in each step rather than to the side. Like in https://docs-test.viam.dev/3201/use-cases/configure/.

Reviewer: Alternatively what we could do is keep these as small screenshots and make them clickable to expand

Reviewer: https://github.com/viamrobotics/docs/pull/3206 adds functionality for it either way

**1. Configure one machine**

Start by configuring one of your machines.

In the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com), use the **CONFIGURE** tab to build a configuration for all components and services you want to use on all your machines.

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{% tablestep %}}
{{<imgproc src="/use-cases/one-to-many/raw-json.png" resize="700x" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 250px" declaredimensions=true alt="JSON subtab of the CONFIGURE tab">}}
**2. Copy the raw JSON**

In your machine's **CONFIGURE** tab, switch to **JSON** and copy the raw JSON.

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{% tablestep link="/fleet/fragments/#create-a-fragment" %}}
{{<imgproc src="/use-cases/one-to-many/new-fragment.png" resize="700x" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 250px" declaredimensions=true alt="app.viam.com/fragment interface">}}
**3. Create a fragment**

Go to [app.viam.com/fragments](https://app.viam.com/fragments).

> Add a fragment, and paste the copied JSON configuration into it.

Reviewer: Please add a note about selecting visibility of the fragment, see DOCS-2250

Author: See next line. Or you'd like more than "Set your privacy settings"?

Author: Okay I migrated the 3 options from the reference page

{{% alert title="Note" color="note" %}}
If you modify fields within a fragment, your modifications will act as overwrites.
If you later update the upstream fragment, the updates to the overwritten fields will effectively not be updated.
{{% /alert %}}

{{< table >}}
{{% tablestep link="/fleet/fragments/#modify-the-config-of-a-machine-that-uses-a-fragment" %}}
{{<imgproc src="/use-cases/one-to-many/noun-edit.svg" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 150px"  declaredimensions=true alt="Edit">}}
**1. Edit your machine's config**

Go to the **CONFIGURE** tab of the machine whose config you want to modify, and make your edits.

Don't forget to **Save**.

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{% tablestep link="/fleet/fragments/#use-fragment_mods" %}}
{{<imgproc src="/use-cases/one-to-many/noun-reset.svg" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 100px"  declaredimensions=true alt="Reset to fragment">}}
**2. (Optional) Revert fragment modifications**

> When you make edits to fields in your machine's config, a top-level section called `"fragment_mods"` is added to your JSON config with [update operators](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/operator/update/positional/#---update-) that modify each field you edit.

Reviewer: Please check Natalia's email on "overwrite fragments". I believe this has a UI now

Author: Yes, it does, and I have them use the UI in step 1 but didn't realize there was a revert button because I didn't see it yesterday :D Yay!

Author: (done)

In your machine's **CONFIGURE** tab, switch to **JSON** and copy the raw JSON.

{{<imgproc src="/use-cases/one-to-many/raw-json.png" resize="700x" class="fill aligncenter" style="max-width: 400px" declaredimensions=true alt="JSON subtab of the CONFIGURE tab">}}

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{% tablestep link="/fleet/fragments/" %}}
**3. Create a fragment**

Go to [app.viam.com/fragments](https://app.viam.com/fragments).

Add a fragment, and paste the copied JSON configuration into it.

Set your privacy settings.
There are three options for this:

- **Public:** Any user inside or outside of your organization will be able to view and use this fragment.
- **Private:** No user outside of your organization will be able to view or use this fragment.
- **Unlisted:** Any user inside or outside of your organization, with a direct link, will be able to view and use this fragment.

Click **Save**.

If you want to edit the fragment later, do it from this screen.

{{<imgproc src="/use-cases/one-to-many/new-fragment.png" resize="700x" class="fill aligncenter" style="max-width: 350px" declaredimensions=true alt="app.viam.com/fragment interface">}}

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{% tablestep %}}

> {{<imgproc src="/use-cases/one-to-many/trash-can.svg" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 50px" declaredimensions=true alt="Delete">}}

Reviewer: This icon seems a different size to the other one.

Author: yes because the line weights are very different. the larger one is from Cristina and has a much lighter weight to it so making that one small makes it almost disappear. We don't have all the icons that would be useful, but in the interest of moving forward I thought better to work with what we have.

I can just take out all the icons and have no images on the non-screenshot steps if you prefer?

Reviewer: I think it looks fine on mobile but untidy on desktop. Why don't you follow the pattern you've established and take a picture of the delete menu item on a configuration panel?

**3. Delete the original configuration (optional)**

> Now that the configuration is saved as a fragment, you can delete the original config from your machine and _replace it with the fragment_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that the configuration is saved as a fragment, you can delete the original config from your machine and _replace it with the fragment_ in the next step.
```

In this way, you can keep all your machines up to date whenever you change the fragment.

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{< /table >}}

## Add a fragment to multiple machines

> Now that you have a fragment, you can add it to as many machines as you'd like:

Reviewer: Don't use now that twice so close together please

Author: ```suggestion
With your fragment created, you can add it to as many machines as you'd like:
```

{{< table >}}
{{% tablestep %}}

> {{<imgproc src="appendix/try-viam/rover-resources/fragments/fragments_list.png" resize="800x" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 300px" declaredimensions=true alt="Add fragment">}}

Reviewer: I think this should have the imgzoom class

**1. Add the fragment to one machine**

On your machine's **CONFIGURE** tab, click the **+** button and select **Insert fragment**.
Search for your fragment and add it.

Click **Save** in the upper right corner of the screen.

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{% tablestep %}}
{{<imgproc src="/use-cases/one-to-many/repeat.svg" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 120px"  declaredimensions=true alt="Repeat">}}
**2. Repeat for each machine**

Repeat step 1 for each of the machines that you want to configure in the same way.

If some of your machines have slight differences, you can still add the fragment and then add fragment mods in the next section.

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{< /table >}}

> ## Modify a fragment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## (Optional) Modify a fragment
```

Author: Why? This is a separate section, available if they want it. On https://docs.viam.com/use-cases/collect-sensor-data/ we don't list "view sensor data" as optional. I think it could get messy if we start adding optional to all sections.

Would it help if I change it to this?
```suggestion
## How to modify a fragment
```

If your machines are similar but not identical, you can use a fragment with all of them, and then [overwrite parts of it](/fleet/fragments/#modify-the-config-of-a-machine-that-uses-a-fragment) to customize select fields of the configuration without modifying the upstream fragment.

{{% alert title="Note" color="note" %}}
If you modify fields within a fragment, your modifications will act as overwrites.
If you later update the upstream fragment, the updates to the overwritten fields will effectively not be updated.
{{% /alert %}}

{{< table >}}
{{% tablestep link="/fleet/fragments/#modify-the-config-of-a-machine-that-uses-a-fragment" %}}

> {{<imgproc src="/use-cases/one-to-many/edit.svg" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 50px"  declaredimensions=true alt="Edit">}}

Reviewer: And then here maybe show a picture of the edits?

![Screenshot 2024-08-08 at 18 28 21](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3da69a30-8544-4965-a14e-4e71811466be)

Author: Mm but they won't see this unless they click advanced... I'll add mention of that

**1. Edit your machine's config**

Go to the **CONFIGURE** tab of the machine whose config you want to modify, and make your edits.

Don't forget to **Save**.

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{% tablestep link="/fleet/fragments/#use-fragment_mods" %}}
{{<imgproc src="/use-cases/one-to-many/reset.png" class="fill alignleft" resize="500x" style="max-width: 250px"  declaredimensions=true alt="Reset to fragment">}}
**2. (Optional) Revert fragment modifications**

If you need to restore the original fragment, click the **...** in the upper right corner of the card you modified, and click **Revert changes**.
Now, the fragment will be identical to the upstream fragment.

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{< /table >}}

## Next steps

> To set up a larger fleet even more quickly with `viam-server` and configurations, you can use Viam's provisioning manager, Viam Agent:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up a larger fleet without manually adding a fragment to each machine configuration, you can use Viam's provisioning manager, Viam Agent:
```
I think that's accurate

Author: That's a great way to put it!

Click **Save** in the upper right corner of the screen.

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{% tablestep %}}
{{<imgproc src="/use-cases/one-to-many/repeat.svg" class="fill alignleft" style="max-width: 120px"  declaredimensions=true alt="Repeat">}}
**2. Repeat for each machine**

Repeat step 1 for each of the machines that you want to configure in the same way.

If some of your machines have slight differences, you can still add the fragment and then add fragment mods in the next section.

{{% /tablestep %}}
{{< /table >}}

## Modify a fragment

If your machines are similar but not identical, you can use a fragment with all of them, and then [overwrite parts of it](/fleet/fragments/#modify-the-config-of-a-machine-that-uses-a-fragment) to customize select fields of the configuration without modifying the upstream fragment.

{{% alert title="Note" color="note" %}}
If you modify fields within a fragment, your modifications will act as overwrites.
If you later update the upstream fragment, the updates to the overwritten fields will effectively not be updated.
{{% /alert %}}

{{< table >}}
{{% tablestep link="/fleet/fragments/#modify-the-config-of-a-machine-that-uses-a-fragment" %}}

> {{<gif webm_src="/how-tos/fragment-overwrite.webm" mp4_src="/how-tos/fragment-overwrite.mp4" alt="A robot drawing a heart" max-width="500px" class="aligncenter" >}}

Reviewer: that's very pretty
